READ_ME

Scott Harrett
11-15-16 

My name is Scott Harrett and this is my project for Code Louisville's Fall 2016 PHP tenure.
I made a website that will display my Oil Paintings using PHP and MySql. I used MAMP to run 
and test my webpages and database locally on my macbook. 

This is a work in progress (like many of my paintings!) and I would like to eventually host this 
website live but it is still in the production phase right now. I own scuddha.com and that is where the 
prject name came from. I want to eventually build websites for other artists I know, as well. I also own 
youcantaffordthisart.com and want to make a website that feature many lacal artists.  This project has 
given me a lot of knowledge I need get started on all these projects!

The database used is called Paint and the table is called paints.  I have incuded a file that can 
be used to import my local database.  It is called localdb.sql

The home page of my website is called scuddha.php.  It has two links in the header that link to the
home page and a contact page (contact.php).  The home page features the different images that link to
a details page(details.php) that display the image and the details about the painting.  The contact page
has a form that can be submitted to send an email to me with name and email info. 

There are two files that must be accessed through the URL (addpaint.php and simpleinsert.php).  
addpaint.php provides a form that updates the detail of a painting to the local database.  
It does not add the image. The image has to be uploaded separately.  I will eventually change this to 
either upload the image with the form or reject the form if the file for the image does not exist.
Right now I am deleting the test input using PhpMyAdmin after the test because it will appear on the home 
page as a list item but without an image. Simpleinsert.php is a static way of doing that. If you run the 
webpage in the browser it will automatically update the table paints. This is for testing only.



Even though my website is not complete and still in production, I beleive I have met all the project requiremants
for Code Louisville 

* Your project is responsive to different devices and/or browser sizes/resolutions

	I used bootstrap to acheive this.  The grid system helped make my website responsive

* Must implement your core language (PHP) and build/use a database

	I used a lot of PHP to make this website and it used a database to function

* Must implement CRUD functions, at minimum Read and Write to your database

	Every page on my website uses either a read to my database or write to my database funtion.
	Delete function coming soon.

* Your code has comments

	I tried to comment as much as possible. Some code is commented out for later reference
	
	below are the two type of comments you will find in my code: 
	
	//
	//  Commented out for later reference
	//

	//!
	//!	Comments explaining code blocks
	//!  

* You are welcome to use frameworks, packages, and other platforms along with your development. Feel free to use Bootstrap to help on the front-end work, but you must still customize the look in some way. Or if you want a chat function, you can use an existing Node package so you don’t recreate the wheel.

	I actually used bootstrap for a lot of style but I also added my own CSS to cusomize my site.

* It must include a README file

	You are reading it!

* Your project code is on your GitHub account in its own repository

	Here it is!

* Have Fun!

	I always say "If you are not having fun, you are not doing it right!" and I'm definately proud to show off my code and paintings at the same time!



I had zero experiance coding before I started with Code Louisville last year and I plan on coding as long as I can! 
As an artist and musician, I have found coding to have many parallels with my current passions.  Coding has quickly
become a new one for me!    









